it's like seeing a polar bear on the
plains of Africa it just doesn't belong
here
the fish are popular in aquariums so
scientists suspect that unwanted pets
may have been released by their owners
into Atlantic waters the first sightings
began about 20 years ago you're clearly
doing very very well you see this island
right up here just sitting on the ledge
they're everywhere
it's not believable these ornate fish
are one of the oceans most poisonous
creatures they have spines on their fins
at the base of these spines of venom
glands containing a neurotoxin when the
spine punctures a victim the toxin is
released old wives tales say the
fisherman would grab lionfish try to
pull them out of their nets but get
stung and they would throw themselves
overboard and commit suicide because the
pain was so excruciating
but the venomous spines aren't the real
danger here so far on this dime the
lionfish is the only relatively large
fish that Philippe and Lucy have seen
these invaders are skilled and efficient
hunters the decimate the native fish
population Wow he's eyeballing something
he's just kind of sneaking up on it whoa
did you see that he just he just went
after something yeah
oh wow that is so rare typically
lionfish are nocturnal feeders that for
him to have done that just shows just
how voracious and deadly these creatures
are and because they're new here the
native fish don't yet recognize them as
predators the idea identifying it as a
predator
lionfish target young fish which are
easily caught the native fish population
is in danger of being wiped out that was
the problem
in action this is bad news for the
health of this echo system bad news for
potentially important fish for the other
creatures that live here that are part
of the natural order of this food chain
and it's getting worse lionfish have few
natural predators in the Atlantic so
their population is exploding from just
a handful 20 years ago there are now
countless lionfish and they've spread
from the Caribbean as far north as Rhode
Island me it was just way that the other
fish were just hanging out random
fences they were everywhere you know I
was looking for grouper I was looking
for parrotfish just keeping my eye out
for things that should be here and I
didn't see any of them in the abundance
II that I saw lionfish that's very
worrying you know I don't think there's
anything we can do about I really don't
except for try and learn so that if it
happens again with another species were
a little more prepared to deal with it I
think that's about all we can we can
hope for which isn't much